README.md, before:

# CBOMkit-action

GitHub Action to generate CBOMs.

## Usage

```yaml
on:
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  cbom-scan:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    name: CBOM generation
    permissions:
      contents: write
      pull-requests: write
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
      # When scanning Java code, the build should be completed beforehand
      - name: Build with Maven
        run: mvn clean package -DskipTests=true
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Create CBOM
        uses: PQCA/cbomkit-action@v2.1.0
        id: cbom
      # Allow you to persist CBOM after a job has completed, and share 
      # that CBOM with another job in the same workflow.
      - name: Commit changes to new branch
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        with: 
          name: "CBOM"
          path: ${{ steps.cbom.outputs.pattern }}
          if-no-files-found: warn 
```

## Supported languages and libraries

The current scanning capabilities of the CBOMkit are defined by the [Sonar Cryptography Plugin's](https://github.com/IBM/sonar-cryptography) supported languages 
and cryptographic libraries:

| Language | Cryptographic Library                                                                         | Coverage | 
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| Java     | [JCA](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/crypto/CryptoSpec.html) | 100%     |
|          | [BouncyCastle](https://github.com/bcgit/bc-java) (*light-weight API*)                         | 100%[^1] |
| Python   | [pyca/cryptography](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/)                                       | 100%     |

[^1]: We only cover the BouncyCastle *light-weight API* according to [this specification](https://javadoc.io/static/org.bouncycastle/bctls-jdk14/1.80/specifications.html)

While the CBOMkit's scanning capabilities are currently bound to the Sonar Cryptography Plugin, the modular 
design of this plugin allows for potential expansion to support additional languages and cryptographic libraries in 
future updates.

Commit message:

udpated README for usage in Python only repos
Signed-off-by: Anitha Natarajan <anataraj@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

# CBOMkit-action

GitHub Action to generate CBOMs.

## Usage

```yaml
on:
  workflow_dispatch:

jobs:
  cbom-scan:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    name: CBOM generation
    permissions:
      contents: write
      pull-requests: write
    steps:
      - name: Checkout repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
      # When scanning Java code, the build should be completed beforehand
      - name: Build with Maven
        run: mvn clean package -DskipTests=true
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      - name: Create CBOM
        uses: PQCA/cbomkit-action@v2.1.0
        id: cbom
        env:
          CBOMKIT_LANGUAGES: java,python # or java or python
      # Allow you to persist CBOM after a job has completed, and share 
      # that CBOM with another job in the same workflow.
      - name: Commit changes to new branch
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        with: 
          name: "CBOM"
          path: ${{ steps.cbom.outputs.pattern }}
          if-no-files-found: warn 
```
### Environment Variables

CBOMKIT_LANGUAGES: (Optional)
A comma-separated list of programming languages to scan. Valid values: `java`, `python`, or `java,python`.
```
env:
  CBOMKIT_LANGUAGES: java,python
```
If not set, CBOMkit will scan for both Java and Python by default. This may cause Java scanner failures if scanned repository contains only Python code and does not include a Java build step.

## Supported languages and libraries

The current scanning capabilities of the CBOMkit are defined by the [Sonar Cryptography Plugin's](https://github.com/IBM/sonar-cryptography) supported languages 
and cryptographic libraries:

| Language | Cryptographic Library                                                                         | Coverage | 
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| Java     | [JCA](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/crypto/CryptoSpec.html) | 100%     |
|          | [BouncyCastle](https://github.com/bcgit/bc-java) (*light-weight API*)                         | 100%[^1] |
| Python   | [pyca/cryptography](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/)                                       | 100%     |

[^1]: We only cover the BouncyCastle *light-weight API* according to [this specification](https://javadoc.io/static/org.bouncycastle/bctls-jdk14/1.80/specifications.html)


While the CBOMkit's scanning capabilities are currently bound to the Sonar Cryptography Plugin, the modular 
design of this plugin allows for potential expansion to support additional languages and cryptographic libraries in 
future updates.
